# STCL
STCL:Curriculum learning Strategies for deep learning image steganography models

Fengchun Liu; Tong Zhang; Chunying Zhang

This repository contains the official implementation of the paper "STCL:Curriculum learning Strategies for deep learning image steganography models".


## Introduction

Aiming at the problems of poor quality of steganographic images and slow network convergence of image steganography models based on deep learning, this paper proposes a Steganography Curriculum Learning training strategy (STCL)  for deep learning image steganography models. So that only easy images are selected for training when the model has poor fitting ability at the initial stage, and gradually expand to more difficult images, the strategy includes a difficulty evaluation strategy based on the teacher model and an knee point-based training scheduling strategy. Firstly, multiple teacher models are trained, and the consistency of the quality of steganographic images under multiple teacher models is used as the difficulty score to construct the training subsets from easy to difficult. Secondly, a training control strategy based on knee points is proposed to reduce the possibility of overfitting on small training sets and accelerate the training process. Experimental results on three large public datasets, ALASKA2, VOC2012 and ImageNet, show that the proposed image steganography scheme is able to improve the model performance under multiple algorithmic frameworks, which not only has a high PSNR, SSIM score, and decoding accuracy, but also the steganographic images generated by the model under the training of the STCL strategy have a low steganography analysis scores.

## Data Preparation
The model is trained and evaluated on three public datasets:VOC2012;ImageNet;ALASKA2
Default dataset used in the code. The directory structure should be:

```plaintext
../VOC2012/
├── train/
├── val/
└── test/
 ```


## Results



## Citation
If you find our work useful in your research, please consider citing:


## Contact
If you encounter any issues while using this repository, please feel free to leave messages in issues or contact us at:

- zenozt@bupt.edu.cn
We will respond as soon as possible.
